---
layout: post
title: the Sabbath
description: the command that no one cares about
date: 2020-12-09
img:
---

<blockquote style="text-align: left;">
  “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy."
  Exodus 20:8-11 ESV
</blockquote>

The Sabbath is the fifth of the Ten Commandments that God gave to the Israelites in the Bible. Among the Ten Commandments are "don't murder", "don't steal", "don't idol worhsip". Those commandments are not only
Some of those commandments form the underlying fabric of Western civilization.

Thoughts on the Sabbath
* As a Christian,
* Sabbath is one of the ten commandments, along with
* I, and other Christians around me, don’t particularly value the Sabbath.
* What is work:
* Back then: strenuous physical work
* Now:
* Peterson: Work
* Why to abstain from work:
* Trust, holiness
* Questions for the Jews:
* Do law-abiding (orthodox?) Jews value the Sabbath?
* If so, what do the Jews consider to be work now? Is it your job or strenuous physical activity?
* Whether you’re Christian or not, the Sabbath highlights an important issue: are you sacrificing the things that really matter to you for
* Important things: long-lasting, not short-lived; wholesome, not unbalanced;
